feat: change Taiko to mainnet (#99)
LimeChain/RollupCodes: src/docs/taiko.mdx

---
title: Taiko

> subtitle: Taiko is a Based Contestable Rollup that aims to be maximally compatible with Ethereum. At the moment, the protocol uses SGX proofs and doesn't allow Ethereum block builders to sequence transactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
subtitle: Taiko aims to be a Based and Type1 equivalent Rollup. It uses tiered multi-proofs system. Currently the protocol uses SGX proofs (lowest tier proofs) which makes it an Optimistic Rollup. The zkEVM circuits are higher tier proofs not yet enabled in production.
```

<Section title="Overview">

    Taiko aims to be a based rollup and Type 1 (Ethereum-equivalent) ZK-Rollup. The current design uses decentralised and permissionless sequencers and provers. The zkEVM circuits are based on the Ethereum Foundation's Privacy and Scaling Group research work on zkEVMs, where the team is active contributor.
   
    ###### Focus

    - Implementing circuits for verifying all OPCODEs and Precompiles. The execution of some components of the EVM is currently not verified by the circuits.

    <Labels labels={['ZK-Rollup', 'EVM', 'Mainnet']} title="Taiko" />

</Section>

<Section title="General">

    <Parameter name="Block Time" value="On demand*" tooltip="The rate at which the rollup produces blocks. Blocks are produced on demand."/>

>     <Parameter name="Gas Limit" value="240,250,000" tooltip="The gas limit that can be consumed by an L2 block. 180 000 gas is reserved for the anchor transaction."/>

Reviewer: We can modify it to 240m

    <Parameter name="Sequencing Frequency" value="12 - 60 seconds" tooltip="The frequency at which the rollup posts L2 transactions on Ethereum L1" />

>     <Parameter name="Objective Finality" value="~1.5 minutes" tooltip="The time it takes for a validity proof of an L2 block to be generated and submitted after it is sequenced on L1." />

Reviewer: Actually within 1.5 minutes the proof that is provided is not a ZK proof. Can you verify the current proving mechanism?

<Section title="Overview">

>    Taiko is a Based Contestable Rollup that aims to be a Type 1 (Ethereum-equivalent) ZK-Rollup with decentralised and permissionless sequencers and provers. The current design uses SGX proofs and doesn't allow Ethereum block builders to sequence transactions. The zkEVM circuits are based on the Ethereum Foundation's Privacy and Scaling Group research work on zkEVMs, where the team is active contributor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Taiko aims to be a Based and Type1 (Ethereum-equivalent) ZK-Rollup with decentralized and permissionless sequencers and provers. It uses tiered multi-proofs system. Currently the protocol uses SGX proofs (lowest tier proofs) which makes it an Optimistic Rollup. Permissionless sequencing and higher proof tiers such as the zkEVM circuits are not yet enabled in production.
   
   Taiko is a Based Contestable Rollup that aims to be a Type 1 (Ethereum-equivalent) ZK-Rollup with decentralised and permissionless sequencers and provers. The current design uses SGX proofs and doesn't allow Ethereum block builders to sequence transactions. The zkEVM circuits are based on the Ethereum Foundation's Privacy and Scaling Group research work on zkEVMs, where the team is active contributor.
```

   
    ###### Focus

    - Implementing circuits for verifying all OPCODEs and Precompiles. The execution of some components of the EVM is currently not verified by the circuits.

>     - Allow Ethereum block builders to sequence Taiko blocks
>     - Аdding ZK validity proofs and prover marketplace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Decentralize sequencers by allowing anyone to sequence Taiko blocks
    - Enabling higher tier proof systems such as ZK validity proofs and a Prover marketplace
```

    <Labels labels={['Optimistic Rollup', 'EVM', 'Mainnet']} title="Taiko" />

</Section>

<Section title="General">

    <Parameter name="Block Time" value="On demand*" tooltip="The rate at which the rollup produces blocks. Blocks are produced on demand."/>

    <Parameter name="Gas Limit" value="240 million" tooltip="The gas limit that can be consumed by an L2 block. 180 000 gas is reserved for the anchor transaction."/>

    <Parameter name="Sequencing Frequency" value="12 - 60 seconds" tooltip="The frequency at which the rollup posts L2 transactions on Ethereum L1" />

>     <Parameter name="Objective Finality" value="1 day" tooltip="The time it takes for a validity proof of an L2 block to be generated and submitted after it is sequenced on L1. Currently the SGX proofs are considered final if they have not been contested for 24 hours" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <Parameter name="Objective Finality" value="1 day" tooltip="The time it takes for the rollup to be considered objectively final. State sequenced through SGX proofs is considered final if it has not been contested for 24 hours" />
```

<Section title="Overview">

>    Taiko aims to be a Based and Type1 (Ethereum-equivalent) ZK-Rollup with decentralized and permissionless sequencers and provers. It uses tiered multi-proofs system. Currently the protocol uses SGX proofs (lowest tier proofs) which makes it an Optimistic Rollup. Permissionless sequencing and higher proof tiers such as the zkEVM circuits are not yet enabled in production.

Reviewer: duplicated text
